# Blumenstock Response
January 27
Ethan Ding

1. [Blumenstock Response] 
In our world today, technology like cell phones are becoming more widespread everyday. This also means that there are larger amounts of data being created and used as a result of the increase in technology. In his article, Blumenstock describes how all of this data can potentially used in a variety of beneficial ways, like using pre-existing algorithims to identify and aid people in poverty or using cell phone data to track natural disasters or even diseases. However, Blumenstock also states that there are problems that make it hard for data to be applied in this way. One of the reasons is that the data that people have can possibly be used against them. In the example Blumenstock provided, kenyan citizen's data are analyzed to identify their digital credit to see if they are eligible for a loan, only to have a high interest rate attached to that loan that they didn't know about that ends up causing debt. Another pitfall Blumenstock describes in his article is that the methods using data lack validation. Whether it be due to a lack of money or technology, maps created on the distribution of wealth are verified in only a handful of countries. This means while it may be cheaper and efficient than gathering census data, it may be inaccurate. Lastly, biased algorithms typically favor people that are richer and have access to smartphones that  generate the data for certain algorithms. Blumenstock then proposes that algorithms and data be customized to be more safe for the people whos data is being used. Validating the data using previous data is also an important way forward because it provides a comparison for new algorithms to make improvements. Collaboration is also important because much more is able to be done if people that know how to apply data work with the companies and organizations that work to make improvments in the world. When considering human development and data science, data is still the property of the people themselves. Because of this, groups that intend to use this data must find a way to be transparent on how the data is being used while having access to enough of it in order to properly use it. 
